yes they have agreed on some points and
delayed other points for discussion in
one month time what the Palestinians and
the Israelis have agreed upon via the
Egyptian mediations is that the border
crossings between Gaza and Israel will
be open to allow aid supplies in also
construction material will be allowed
into the strip to help in the
Reconstruction process white scale
damage have be has befallen Gaza during
the war so finally construction material
will be allowed into the strip also the
fishing area for the Palestinian
fishermen will be expanded that's the
points both sides agreed upon however we
have more controversial issues like
releasing Palestinian prisoners in
Israeli jails h building a Seaport and
an airport for the Palestinians in Gaza
Strip that what they have repeatedly
demanded both sides will hold further
discussions about that in one month time
so it's finally a long-term ceasefire
agreed on between both sides after a
really tough process of negotiations
here in Cairo and what we understand is
that the Egyptian mediators kept
contacting both sides even after the
Palestinian and Israeli delegations left
Cairo a couple of days ago all right
Sally for now in Cairo thank you very
much indeed uh let's just go uh via uh
this live shot we have of Gaza the sky
is now uh clear uh no Rockets 5
certainly today although Israel
reporting that an Israel has been killed
and several injured near ashol let's go
live though to Quentin Somerville who
joins us uh from Gaza Quentin how are
they reacting to the news
there lots of gunfire in the air at the
moment uh Tim and right up until the
wire right up until we came on air there
were in fact Rockets leaving Gaza and
flying over uh into Israel within the
last hour we believe that three
Palestinians were killed in a bombing in
the Rafa Crossing in the South uh of
Gaza and one Israeli was killed uh just
across the border as a result of rocket
and mortar fire uh but the expectation
is here that this ceasefire deal is uh
has been
agreed there's more of that gunfire and
celebration you can probably hear uh
ceasefire has been ceasefire deal has
been agreed it's been a long time in the
in the coming 50 days we've seen a
number of ceas files I think our
counting is there have been eight
previous ceas files some of them just
for a few hours some of them for as long
as 5 days they haven't held uh but the
the Hope from people here in Gaza and I
expect people in Israel will be that
this time it will be different that
after 50 days and 2,000 people uh being
killed many hundreds of thousands of
people now homeless here in Gaza that
this deal might actually hold have you
got any more detail though about the
substance of this ceasefire uh will all
the borders be open will the blockade be
lifted well we don't have those details
yet we're told that the blockade will be
lifted the Egyptian and the Israeli
blockade but what does that really mean
how many um trucks will be allowed into
Gaza from the Israeli side will it be
200 a day will it be a thousand a day
those details haven't been released how
many uh people from Gaza will be able to
enter into Israel how uh how will they
then proceed with the thornier issues of
a sea port for Gaza uh will Hamas
prisoners be released those Hamas
prisoners who were arrested in the
occupied West Bank before this conflict
uh began and and and that was an issue
that really contributed uh to this
conflict so many many uh issues still
outstanding we believe that the
fundamentals are the blockade will be Li
lifted people here in Gaza will be happy
about that and the gunfire All Around Me
seems to indicate that that fishermen
will be able to fish further uh into the
Mediterranean and that rocket fire and
Israeli air strikes will stop